           Licensing and Distribution Terms for libSBML

The majority of libSBML is copyrighted as follows:

* Copyright (C) 2013-2017 jointly by the following organizations:
  1. California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
  2. EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), Hinxton, UK
  3. University of Heidelberg, Heidelberg, Germany

* Copyright (C) 2009-2013 jointly by the following organizations: 
  1. California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
  2. EMBL European Bioinformatics Institute (EMBL-EBI), Hinxton, UK
 
* Copyright (C) 2006-2008 by the California Institute of Technology,
    Pasadena, CA, USA 
 
* Copyright (C) 2002-2005 jointly by the following organizations: 
  1. California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, CA, USA
  2. Japan Science and Technology Agency, Japan

Portions of the source code comprising libSBML were copyrighted
and contributed by third parties, and placed under the same LGPL
2.1 license as the rest of libSBML. The following are their
copyright statements:

* Copyright (C) 2004-2008 by European Media Laboratories Research
  gGmbH, Heidelberg, Germany.  (For the "SBML Layout" code.)

LibSBML is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public License as
published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2.1 of
the License, or any later version.

This software is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, WITHOUT EVEN THE IMPLIED WARRANTY OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  The software
and documentation provided hereunder is on an "as is" basis, and
the copyright holders have no obligations to provide maintenance,
support, updates, enhancements or modifications.  In no event
shall the copyright holders be liable to any party for direct,
indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages, including
lost profits, arising out of the use of this software and its
documentation, even if the copyright holders have been advised of
the possibility of such damage.  See the GNU Lesser General Public
License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
License along with this library in the file named "COPYING.txt"
included with the software distribution.  A copy is also
available online at the Internet address
http://sbml.org/software/libsbml/COPYING.html for your
convenience.  You may also write to obtain a copy from the Free
Software Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston,
MA 02110-1301,  USA.


     Third-party software incorporated into both the libSBML
               binary and source-code distributions

LibSBML incorporates an open-source compression library written by
a third party.  The following is information about the copyright
and distribution terms of this library:

* MiniZip 1.01e, copyright (C) 1998-2005 Gilles Vollant, released 
  under terms compatible with the LGPL.  Please see the file
  src/sbml/compress/00README.txt for more information about
  MiniZip 1.01e and its license terms.


        Additional third-party software incorporated only
            into the libSBML source code distribution

Additional software is used to produce the documentation of
libSBML.  The binary distributions of libSBML do not include this
software; they are only present in the source code distribution
and the libSBML documentation archives.

* Argparse 1.2.1, copyright (C) 2006-2009 Steven J. Bethard
  <steven.bethard@gmail.com> and distributed under the Python Software
  Foundation License version 2.  Code downloaded from 
  http://code.google.com/p/argparse/ on 2012-02-10.

* Google Code Prettify, distributed under the terms of the
  Apache License Version 2.0, January 2004.  Code downloaded from 
  http://code.google.com/p/google-code-prettify/ on 2013-10-16.

* PrettyTable, copyright (C) 2009-2013 Luke Maurits, distributed
  under the following BSD-derivative license:

    Copyright (c) 2009-2013 Luke Maurits <luke@maurits.id.au>
    All rights reserved.
    With contributions from:
     * Chris Clark
     * Christoph Robbert
     * Klein Stephane
     * "maartendb"
    
    Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
    without modification, are permitted provided that the
    following conditions are met:

    * Redistributions of source code must retain the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
      following disclaimer. 

    * Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above
      copyright notice, this list of conditions and the
      following disclaimer in the documentation and/or other
      materials provided with the distribution.

    * The name of the author may not be used to endorse or
      promote products derived from this software without
      specific prior written permission.

    THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND
    CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES,
    INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
    MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE
    DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT OWNER OR
    CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
    SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT
    NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES;
    LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
    HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN
    CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR
    OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS
    SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

* ExcludeDoclet, copyright (C) 2004 by Sun Microsystems, Inc., and
  distributed under the following open-source terms:

   Copyright 2004 Sun Microsystems, Inc. All Rights Reserved.

   Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
   without modification, are permitted provided that the
   following conditions are met:

    - Redistribution of source code must retain the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer.

   - Redistribution in binary form must reproduce the above
   copyright notice, this list of conditions and the following
   disclaimer in the documentation and/or other materials provided
   with the distribution. Neither the name of Sun Microsystems,
   Inc. nor the names of contributors may be used to endorse or
   promote products derived from this software without specific
   prior written permission.

   This software is provided "AS IS," without a warranty of any
   kind. ALL EXPRESS OR IMPLIED CONDITIONS, REPRESENTATIONS AND
   WARRANTIES, INCLUDING ANY IMPLIED WARRANTY OF MERCHANTABILITY,
   FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR NON-INFRINGEMENT, ARE
   HEREBY EXCLUDED. SUN MICROSYSTEMS, INC. ("SUN") AND ITS
   LICENSORS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY DAMAGES SUFFERED BY
   LICENSEE AS A RESULT OF USING, MODIFYING OR DISTRIBUTING THIS
   SOFTWARE OR ITS DERIVATIVES. IN NO EVENT WILL SUN OR ITS
   LICENSORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY LOST REVENUE, PROFIT OR DATA, OR
   FOR DIRECT, INDIRECT, SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL, INCIDENTAL OR
   PUNITIVE DAMAGES, HOWEVER CAUSED AND REGARDLESS OF THE THEORY
   OF LIABILITY, ARISING OUT OF THE USE OF OR INABILITY TO USE
   THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF SUN HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY
   OF SUCH DAMAGES.

   You acknowledge that this software is not designed, licensed
   or intended for use in the design, construction, operation or
   maintenance of any nuclear facility.
