Copyright (c) 2003 Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory
All rights reserved.

Portions of this software were developed by the Unidata Program at the
University Corporation for Atmospheric Research.

Access and use of this software shall impose the following obligations and
understandings on the user. The user is granted the right, without any fee or
cost, to use, copy, modify, alter, enhance and distribute this software, and
any derivative works thereof, and its supporting documentation for any purpose
whatsoever, provided that this entire notice appears in all copies of the
software, derivative works and supporting documentation.  Further, Northwestern
University and Argonne National Laboratory request that the user credit
Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory in any publications
that result from the use of this software or in any product that includes this
software.  The names Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory,
however, may not be used in any advertising or publicity to endorse or promote
any products or commercial entity unless specific written permission is
obtained from Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory. The user
also understands that Northwestern University and Argonne National Laboratory
are not obligated to provide the user with any support, consulting, training or
assistance of any kind with regard to the use, operation and performance of
this software nor to provide the user with any updates, revisions, new versions
or "bug fixes."

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY AND ARGONNE NATIONAL
LABORATORY "AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY
AND ARGONNE NATIONAL LABORATORY BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, INDIRECT OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE,
DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS
ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACCESS, USE OR PERFORMANCE OF
THIS SOFTWARE.
