PURPOSE

RabbitSketch is an efficient highly optimized sketching library
which is designed for genome seuqnce analysis. RabbitSketch can take 
full advantage of modern hardware. RabbitSketch can also be used 
as a fast general-purpose distance estimator for common strings. 
RabbitSketch provides both python and C++ interfaces. It is implemented 
in C++ and is distributed with:

KSeq
  lh3lh3.users.sourceforge.net/kseq.shtml
  MIT License

MurmurHash3
  code.google.com/p/smhasher/wiki/MurmurHash3
  Public domain

Mash
  https://github.com/marbl/Mash
  COPYRIGHT LICENSE
  Copyright © 2015, Battelle National Biodefense Institute (BNBI);
  all rights reserved. Authored by: Brian Ondov, Todd Treangen,
  Sergey Koren, and Adam Phillippy
  
  This Software was prepared for the Department of Homeland Security
  (DHS) by the Battelle National Biodefense Institute, LLC (BNBI) as
  part of contract HSHQDC-07-C-00020 to manage and operate the National
  Biodefense Analysis and Countermeasures Center (NBACC), a Federally
  Funded Research and Development Center.

xxHash
  https://github.com/Cyan4973/xxHash
  BSD 2-Clause License

Dashing
  https://github.com/dnbaker/dashing  
  GNU General Public License v3.0

omhismb2019
  https://github.com/Kingsford-Group/omhismb2019
  BSD 3-clauses license

pybind11
  https://github.com/pybind/pybind11 
  The 3-Clause BSD License

COPYRIGHT LICENSE

Copyright © 2020, Shandong University (SDU); all rights reserved.
Authored by Zekun Yin, Xiaoming Xu, Meiyang Liu, Ziheng Qin and Jinxiao Zhang

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are
met:

1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.

2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

3. Neither the name of the copyright holder nor the names of its
contributors may be used to endorse or promote products derived from
this software without specific prior written permission.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS
"AS IS" AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR
A PARTICULAR PURPOSE ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT
HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL,
SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT
LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE,
DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY
THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT
(INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE
OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.
